The virtue of darkness
is to face reality at its
harshest without looking away.
There are many forms of
darkness, but perhaps the most
primal is to not know things.
Humans crave certainty.
Is there a lion lurking in the
shadows or not?
Will your family abandon you
or not?
Will your parents or government
or God somehow make sure that
everything will ultimately be
okay?
And sometimes the answer is no,
you're on your own and that's
awful.
But
at least you know where you
stand.
Sometimes though
the answer is just "I don't
know".
And you have to make a decision
and take action without knowing,
and you might have to make
trade-offs or sacrifices and
you won't find out tomorrow or
next week or even a year from
now whether those sacrifices
were worth it.
This year there were a lot of
things
I didn't know.
Some of them were concrete and
easy to think about.
How easily does COVID spread?
How likely am I to die or
suffer long-term debilitating
effects? Do masks work?
What distances can we safely
see each other outdoors?
Back in April the answer to
most of these was
"we don't know yet".
And we had to make calls about
what to do, regardless, and
nine months later
some of the answers still
aren't quite as clear as I
would like.
But those were the
straightforward questions.
Some questions got murkier,
questions about what other
people believe,
questions about game theory and
moral uncertainty and how to
handle scarcity.
And I didn't know the answers,
and I didn't know what other
people thought the answers were.
How dangerous do other people
think that COVID is?
What norms do they think there
should be in a pandemic and
how do they think we should
enforce those norms?
I don't know.
What crumbling pillars of my
life do I need to survive?
Which pillars do my loved ones
need?
If my spouse or housemate or
friends or coworkers disagree
about how to coordinate, what
happens?
I don't know.
How do I feel about that?
I'm not sure.
If I say "screw it, I'm sick of
living in fear,
I'm just going to live my life
normally",
how likely am I to give COVID
to someone else?
If I decide "screw it, I'm sick
of negotiating with everyone,
I'm running away to the woods",
what pieces of infrastructure
will crumble a little bit in
my absence?
Which friends needed me?
How many other people will run
away into the woods,
and what will we leave behind?
I don't know.
If I'm overwhelmed and alone
and don't have the skills to
do the right thing,
which mistakes can I get away
with making?
If a friend is overwhelmed and
alone and they hurt me,
how do I feel about that?
If I hurt a friend because I
thought carefully and soberly
through the trade-offs and
wrung my hands, but ultimately
decided they were on the wrong
side of a trolley problem,
how do I feel about that?
I don't know.
It's the end of the year,
and here we are.
And it's a reasonable time to
want to make sense of things,
to put the year in perspective,
to ask "which sacrifices were
worth it"?
And it's a reasonable time to
want to remind ourselves that
we're all on the same team
and put the year behind us.
And ultimately I do think we're
all on the same team, and I
have guesses about which
sacrifices were worth it and
which were not, but
the fact is I'm not nearly
confident about any of that to
justify giving it in a Solstice
speech.
And it's a complicated question
to ask,
what does it mean for us to all
be on the same team if we have
different needs and values and
beliefs about what the right
thing to do is?
I hurt people this year.
And I don't know yet, which of
those were mistakes and which
of them were the least bad
choice I could find at the
time, and which of them were
actually just the right
decision, and I'm sorry.
I know other people who hurt
each other,
and who were quietly abandoned.
And the question looms, how do
we make sense of all of that
and find meaning, and be a
community, and I wanted to
have an answer for you guys
tonight and I thought about it
really hard and I tried.
But I don't know
yet.
100 line:1
This isn't a tribe about
getting to confidently know
101 line:1
things together.
102 line:1
This is a tribe about figuring
things out.
103 line:1
Sometimes we need to walk
through the darkness a while.
104 line:1
Neither entirely alone, but not
entirely together.
105 line:1
With miles to go before morning.